The governing body has prayerfully considered how Jehovah's mercy could be better reflected
when dealing with wrongdoers in the congregation.
In his love, Jehovah wants sinners to become reconciled to him if at all possible.
He doesn't want anyone to be destroyed, so he appeals to them to repent.
And we see these pictures, you know, illustrations about, might be a drawing or something that
shows a shepherd going after that one large sheep.
And you think that's really nice, you know, in concept, don't that's good?
But it's not just an academic concept, it's reality.
The fact that he loves people in this way, even those who've been removed from the congregation,
just gives me an opportunity to reflect that same love that Jehovah has and extend that
to others as well.
The elders in our circuit promptly responded to the adjustments.
Once they heard the update, we got the printed direction, the brothers promptly met together.
With the fellow elders, we all discuss how we can help all these ones in our territory
that have been removed from the congregation.
And we visited them.
They were grateful that they were not forgotten.
They are still remembered.
This heartwarming to hear reports of how Jehovah has blessed congregation elders as they search
for those who have been removed from the congregation.
For example, in the first four months after the 2024 governing body update number two,
in the South Africa and Philippines branch territories combined, more than 1,200 have
come back to the congregation.
Here in the United States branch territory, over 5,000 brothers and sisters have been
welcomed back.
In the Brazil branch territory, some 5,200 publishers have been reinstated, and in the
Central America branch territory, over 5,300 individuals have come back to the congregation.
The numbers are exciting, but we can't overlook that each of these dear ones have returned
to Jehovah and Jehovah loves them.
One man came to mind because he's deaf and blind, and he'd been away from Jehovah for
45 years.
We prayed with him.
We asked him where he was with things, and he said, I want to be back, I want to be back
in the family.
That was as what he said, he's been studying regularly and attending the meetings ever
since then.
And he was reinstated about a month later.
So when I tacked that announcement for him that night, I said, you're back in the family.
You're a Jehovah's witness again, and he was just overjoyed at that.
There's a pioneer sister in our circuit that was asked to conduct a study with a young
mom who's trying to make her way back to Jehovah.
She was so excited after the first study.
She said that first study went so well.
It seems like everyone in the congregation is very happy just to have this arrangement
in place.
A sister told me it made her so happy to see that young mom who's studying, smiling
again.
She hadn't seen it in a long time.
And one experience that is exciting is that this man has been removed for over 30 years,
but he started coming to the meetings early this year, but he would sit at the back and
not talk to anyone.
But eventually, after this arrangement has been made available when we visited him, he
was so excited because he said, I didn't know what to do to come back to the congregation.
And here we are visiting him.
And he says he felt like a heavyweight has been lifted off his shoulders.
And he has been reinstated.
A young man that I studied the Bible was who came into the truth under great difficulty.
And so we thought of him immediately.
And right away I sent him a message because I still had his phone number and said, please
watch this governing body update and I sent him the link.
Well the next day I received a reply to this message and there was a photo of a letter
that he had written to the congregation body of elders asking to be reinstated.
I wrote back very excitedly and said, have you actually watched the update?
And he said, yes, since yesterday I've watched this update six times.
Well of course our hearts were absolutely overflowing, but it was even, we were even happier
when about a month later he was writing us to say, I have finally been reinstated.
The sister that was asked to conduct a study with a person and she says, the greatest gift
I've ever gotten is to study with someone who has been removed from the congregation.
So her experience of crying was her telling her that she liked her bag and the student
says, I bought this bag years ago so I could go out and service when I got ready.
When I was reinstated showed her that she had been trying for a long time to come back
but just did not know how.
So the student now realizes that that was Jehovah, that is helping her and she feels
grateful to be helped to come back.
By sitting on that Bible study with someone who was removed from the congregation
and seeing the benefit helped me to see the depth of Jehovah's mercy
because this young man has been removed from the congregation for nine years.
He has wanted to come back, he mentioned, but he just didn't have the strength
to make steps to come back.
One person had been removed from the congregation some 17 years ago and on his own
he was watching JW Broadcasting.
He saw the update.
He said, this is, it's time to come home.
And so he called the kingdom hall, he left a voicemail and the brothers received his message.
They reached right out to him.
A Bible study was started and the very happily he's too has progressed, progressed to being
reinstated and his parents were able to fly in and be there at the kingdom hall that night.
He was reinstated.
He later said this is truly a homecoming.
I feel like it helps us to see another side of Jehovah as our father.
And you see how much he loves his children.
And then he allows us to have a part in helping them to come back to him.
And so we get to reflect his mercy too.
That's such a privilege.
Back in 1979, my father was removed from the congregation and I was eight.
You can grow up thinking, okay, maybe my dad will come back in a decade goes by.
Two decades goes by.
Three decades goes by.
And you don't want to lose hope.
But it does tend to make you think that maybe this person might not ever come back.
I get a phone call and it's a friend of mine I've known for many years.
He and another brother went to go see my dad.
And he even accepted a study.
At this point, I said, wow, I said, that's, that's great.
Because most of my childhood and my entire adult life, I have not known a father who was serving Jehovah.
You should never, ever underestimate the lengths Jehovah will go to to save.
One sheep.
So, yeah, it's, yeah, it's, uh, if you weren't a believer in Joe,
is Joe is mercy before, no one will ever be able to say when everything is over.
And this is the things that Jehovah didn't care enough.
He didn't make the efforts.
He didn't send anybody out.
Uh, yeah, you can't, you really, you really can't say that.
Because Jehovah is making sure that the extra effort was made.